How People with Disabilities Use Digital Technology.
Stefan.
Student with attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder and dyslexia.
Hi, I'm Stefan.
I have dyslexia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder,
ADHD.
I have difficulty recognizing
or sounding out written words,
even though I use those same words
in conversation all the time.
It affects my spelling
and my reading comprehension.
It often takes me a long time to figure
out the individual words I'm reading,
and then it's hard for me to remember
how the words in a sentence
fit together in a meaningful way.
Digital books and documents
are often much better for me.
On the computer, on a tablet,
or - my favorite - on my new e-reader.
I can change the font type,
text size and line spacing,
which makes it easier for me to read.
I also use the read aloud function
because I read better
when I can see
and hear the text at the same time.
It also
highlights the words being read aloud
and has a reading ruler,
so that I can follow along more easily.
Sometimes, though, digital books and
documents don't work well.
Sometimes they are just scanned images.
These also can't be read aloud
and I can't change the text size and font.
Some don't have bookmarks, which I use
to jump to the parts I want to focus on.
Or, there are long chunks of text
without any headings,
so I have difficulty
focusing on the content.
It's so much easier
when text has more spacing
and graphics
to make them easier to follow.
Another problem is when I have to do
online research,
I type in words, but sometimes
I do it wrong or use a different word
that sounds the same, like “brake”
when I mean “break”.
Sometimes I land on websites
with all these ads and things
popping up and moving around the screen.
With ADHD, I get distracted
by these ads and videos,
and sometimes I click on them
and I forget what I was meant to be doing.
I use several pop-up blockers,
but they don't always work.
When I find an article I want to read,
I try to remember to switch
to reading mode in my browser.
This usually removes all the stuff around
the page and lets me focus on the text.
But some websites don't work
well and the ads still appear,
or the text is too difficult
for me to read.
I love it when websites work well
with my settings and extensions.
Like, the extension
for spelling and grammar,
which helps me when I'm typing
things like emails.
That's very important for me.
You can help make
technology accessible to me.
Accessibility: It’s about people.
For more information from the Web Accessibility Initiative
on how people with Disabilities use Digital Technology
visit w3.org/WAI/people